The Fellowship of the Ring
Movie Script - Prologue


Scene 1:  The Forging of the Rings  
(All lines in this scene are spoken by Galadriel)

I amar prestar aen. (ee amar prestar ein)
The world has changed.

Han mathon ne nen. (han mathon ne nen)
I feel it in the water.

Han mathon ne chae. (han mathon ne hai)
I feel it in the earth.

A han nostron ned wilith. (ahan nothon ne gwilith)
(and?) I smell it in the air.

Much that once was, is lost
For none now live who remember it.

It began with the forging of the great rings.
Three were given to the Elves:
Immortal, wisest and fairest of all beings.

Seven to the dwarf lords:
Great miners and craftsmen of the mountain halls.

And nine, nine rings were gifted to the race of men who,
above all else, desire power.

For within these rings was bound the strength
and the will to govern each race.

But they were, all of them, deceived;
for another ring was made.
In the land of Mordor, in the fires of Mount Doom,
the Dark Lord Sauron forged, in secret, a master ring.

And into this ring he poured his cruelty, his malice
and his will to dominate all life.

One ring to rule them all.

One by one, the free lands of Middle-earth fell
to the power of the ring.
 


Scene 2:  The Last Alliance  
(All lines in this scene are spoken by Galadriel)

But there were some who resisted.

A Last Alliance of Men and Elves
marched against the armies of Mordor.
 


Scene 3:  Meeting Sauron's Forces  
(All lines in this scene are spoken by Galadriel)

And on the slopes of Mount Doom they fought
for the freedom of Middle-earth.

Victory was near,
but the power of the Ring could not be undone.

(Sauron appears and wreaks havoc)
 


Scene 4:  The Fall of Sauron
(Except where noted below, all lines are spoken by Galadriel)

It was in this moment, when all hope had faded,
that Isildur, son of the King, took up his father's sword.

Sauron, the enemy of the free peoples of Middle-earth,
was defeated.

The ring passed to Isildur,
who had this one chance to destroy evil forever.

But the hearts of men are easily corrupted,
And the ring of power has a will of its own.
It betrayed Isildur to his death

And some things that should not have been forgotten,
were lost.

History became legend, legend became myth,
and for two-and-a-half thousand years,
the Ring passed out of all knowledge.

Until, when chance came, it ensnared a new bearer.

(My precious...)

The ring came to the creature Gollum, who took it
deep into the tunnels of the Misty mountains.

And there, it consumed him.

(It came to me, my own, my precious...)

The ring brought to Gollum unnatural long life.
For five hundred years, it poisoned his mind.
And in the gloom of Gollum's cave, it waited.

Darkness crept back into the forests of the world.
Rumor grew of a shadow in the East,
whispers of a nameless fear.
And the Ring of power perceived:
its time had now come.

It abandoned Gollum.

But something happened then, the ring did not intend.

It was picked up by the most unlikely creature imaginable:

(What's this?)

A hobbit, Bilbo Baggins of the Shire.

(A ring?)

(Gollum's cries in the background).

For the time will soon come when hobbits
will shape the fortunes of all...